Top SEO Agencies (10 Best Ranked)


Top SEO Agencies (10 Best Ranked)

 Best SEO Agencies Criteria
 Top 10 SEO Agencies
 First Page Digital
 SEO Locale
 Intrepy Healthcare Marketing
 EZ Ranking
 WEBARQ
 Click Intelligence
 VELOX Media
 Smash Digital
 worldwideRICHES
 Skynet Technologies USA
 Rest of the SEO Agencies We Evaluated
 Hiring an SEO Firm FAQs

Best SEO Agencies Criteria

SEO is a complex and everchanging field. It can be hard to keep up with the latest trends and changes, let alone find the time to research and compare different SEO agencies.
That’s why we’ve done the hard work for you. We’ve evaluated and ranked the top SEO agencies to help you make an informed decision about which one is right for your business.
The agencies on our list are all leaders in the SEO industry. They have a proven track record of helping businesses like yours achieve online success.
We’ve looked at their team, their pricing, and their results to help you choose the best agency for your needs.
If you’re looking for help with your SEO, then one of these top agencies is a great place to start.

Top 10 SEO Agencies


First Page Digital

First Page Digital is a Singaporebased SEO agency that specializes in content, onsite technical optimization, and link building. The agency has a strong team of over 50 digital marketers who focus on quality over quantity, and have a proven track record of success with numerous clients across a range of industries. First Page Digital has a minimum monthly retainer of $1000 USD with an average of $5000 USD.

SEO Locale

SEO Locale is a full service digital marketing agency that specializes in search engine optimization (SEO) and website design & development. With over 25 years of combined experience in SEO, the SEO Locale team has developed a proven strategy for success. What separates SEO Locale is their ability to identify the target keywords that will generate the highest ROI for their clients. As a result, their clients have seen remarkable results, including increased organic traffic and revenue.

Intrepy Healthcare Marketing

Intrepy Healthcare Marketing specializes in digital marketing services that help medical practices attract, convert, and retain patients. Services include SEO, medical advertising, website design, physician reputation management, and listings. The agency has a minimum monthly retainer of $2000 USD with an average of $4000 USD. Intrepy’s biggest strength is in helping practices improve search rankings through local SEO services. Notable accomplishments include developing a comprehensive onpage SEO optimization strategy for a large orthopedic practice that increased traffic by 85% and appointment goal completions by 33%.

EZ Ranking

EZ Ranking is an over a decadeold fullfledged Digital Marketing Agency. They have worked with more than 10,000 clients from a variety of industries over the past 12+ years, offering a wide range of Digital Marketing Services to choose from. The company takes immense pride in providing Premium Digital Marketing Services at Competitive Prices with Excellent Customer Service. With over 150+ specialists, the team builds custom websites & Mobile Apps and a variety of digital marketing services to assist any size company in any industry.
The expert uses advanced digital strategies and services starting from search engine optimization (SEO), Social Media Optimization (SMO), payperclick (PPC), Content Marketing, and Web & App development services which have generated guaranteed client ROI.
EZ Rankings have three categories in Digital Marketing and Promotion Packages which serve different promotional budgets starting from the starter package which offers 25% traffic growth quarterly, second is the booster package which offers 30% traffic growth quarterly and the last one is the premium package which offers 40% traffic improvement quarterly.
With years of success, EZ Rankings had earned some of the prominent industry awards from organizations including the clutch, the manifest, Designrush, etc.

WEBARQ

WEBARQ is a large digital marketing agency that employs 150 people and offers services including UX design, development, SEO, and social media marketing. The company has a strong focus on paid digital marketing and is a certified Google Premier Partner and Facebook Partner. WEBARQ guarantee their SEO service will get clients’ keywords to the first page of Google within one year, with a current success rate above 97%.

SEO Agency Singapore

SEO Agency is a digital marketing agency in Singapore that specializes in search engine optimization (SEO). The company has a team of over 50 experienced researchers and strategists who design effective, multifaceted marketing solutions that achieve results. SEO Agency’s success is due to their technical expertise and creative style, which provides a fullservice solution to their clients. Notable accomplishments include expanding the team from 3 to over 50 people, and helping many clients rank their money keywords on the first page of Google. The biggest strength of SEO Agency is their technical SEO along with SEO content.

Click Intelligence

Click Intelligence is a specialist datadriven digital and internet marketing agency that offers bespoke SEO audits and strategies. The company has a track record of successfully improving a business’s search visibility, and its primary skills lie in managed SEO campaigns and improving search visibility. The Outreach team can also provide a specialist link building campaign to tie neatly into the SEO strategy, tailormade for your site, with approval of all content available.

VELOX Media

VELOX Media is an SEOfocused agency that employs 50 people and has a minimum monthly retainer of $8000 USD with an average of $25000 USD. The agency specializes in content marketing, SEO, Google Ads, Facebook Ads, SEM, and website development. VELOX Media has helped Dr. Axe improve online sales revenue by leveraging authoritative and highquality linkbuilding and AdWords campaigns. Within 90 days, the agency was able to help Dr. Axe outrank Amazon, Today, and GNC. To date, VELOX Media has generated a minimum of a 4X6X ROI for all clients.

Smash Digital

Smash Digital is an SEOfocused agency that excels in link building. They have a portfolio of companies that they have built up using the same strategies they help their clients with, and they also have a VC company where they invest in their clients. Smash Digital is able to take clients and increase their organic traffic and revenue significantly. Their biggest strength is their ability to get links on highend publications.

worldwideRICHES

worldwideRICHES Web Design and SEO Services helps companies navigate the complexities of digital marketing to grow their businesses. With over 25 years of experience, they have developed highperformance SEO strategies and conversionfocused web design techniques that have helped local and Fortune 100 companies alike achieve their revenue goals. Their biggest strength is their ability to understand how a welldesigned website can impact both Google rankings and client success.

Skynet Technologies USA

Skynet Technologies is a fullservice digital marketing and branding agency that has been in business for 19 years. They offer services such as SEO, PPC management, social media marketing, email marketing, and content marketing, among others. They also provide ecommerce development, web development, UI/UX design, and data analytics services. Skynet Technologies has a strong focus on providing an excellent customer experience and increasing sales volume for their clients. Notable accomplishments include increasing organic traffic by 300%, 3X Sales, 160% increased orders, and 350% visibility on SERPs for one client. Skynet’s biggest strength is their ability to blend different types of marketing collateral and UI/UX design strategies to produce superior results for their clients.

Rest of the SEO Agencies We Evaluated


Kiwi Website Design

Kiwi Website Design is a digital marketing agency that specializes in SEO and helping New Zealand businesses improve their online presence. The agency employs 10 people and has a minimum monthly retainer of $10000 USD, with an average of $25000 USD. Notable accomplishments include helping a Top Rated Asian Grocery Store in New Zealand rank No.1 for keywords like “asian supermarket”, “asian grocery store”, and “asian grocery”. The organic traffic boosted from 122 visits a day to 1523 visits a day. Kiwi Website Design’s biggest strength is their ability to audit the technical issues on a website and execute a plan for a better user and search experience.

Search Partners

Search Partners is a digital marketing agency with many years of experience helping businesses improve their online presence on international markets. The agency offers SEO services and employs 4 people. Notable accomplishments include improving a telecom company’s visibility on Google by 85% and conversion rate by 363%, and cutting the company’s expenses by 25%. Search partners’ biggest strength is working on longterm projects to help clients build a sustainable brand.

Bizopia

Bizopia is an agency that specializes in designing and developing custom websites that are built to showcase businesses and be SEOfriendly. With a strong focus on content strategy and engagement, Bizopia has helped multiple businesses increase traffic to their website and online platforms, as well as boost appointment scheduling. The team at Bizopia is experienced in working with servicebased companies in highly competitive industries, and is committed to helping businesses build their customer base through trust and effective communication.

Analytive

Analytive is a top growth marketing agency that specializes in Search Marketing and SEO. They excel in content generation, onpage SEO, and technical SEO, and have seen massive increases in quality traffic as a result. If you’re looking for an agency to help drive lead generation and reach key accounts, Analytive is a great choice.

VELOX Media

Velox Media is an ROImodeled digital marketing agency specializing in organic search marketing optimization, paid management, and web development. This digital marketing agency that includes SEO as an offering employs 55 people and has a minimum monthly retainer of $6000 USD with an average of $25000 USD. Notable accomplishments include Rent the Runway’s successful testing of Velox’s ability to outrank key competitors in the industry–including Neiman Marcus and Nordstrom–in a major category search. Velox’s biggest strength is its focus on ROImodeled search strategies.

Unbranded Manchester

Unbranded Manchester is a top digital agency that specializes in business development and technical SEO. They have a custombuilt platform, the Layout Composer, that helps create perfect and SEOfriendly websites without any extra effort. Their biggest strength is their focus on development first.

Omaha Media Group

Omaha Media Group LLC is a digital marketing agency that specializes in SEO, SEM, and web creative management. They have a team of 15 experienced professionals who are dedicated to helping companies take advantage of the power of online search, social media, business collaboration, cloud computing, mobile applications, and other nextgeneration tools. Some of their notable accomplishments include doubling the organic traffic for one of the world’s largest marketplaces, and increasing their yearoveryear revenue by 97%. Their biggest strength is crafting personalized industry strategies that focus on both organic brand identity growth and paid digital advertising.

Sixth City Marketing

Sixth City Marketing is a top digital marketing agency that specializes in conversionoptimized web design and SEO. With over 25 years of collective experience, they have helped clients in a variety of industries achieve success online through customized marketing strategies. They are headquartered in Cleveland, but also have offices in Columbus and Pittsburgh, and are able to serve businesses across the United States. Some of their notable accomplishments include increasing overall traffic by 402% and organic traffic by 540% for TYKMA Electrox, one of their longstanding clients. Their biggest strength is their ability to design websites that convert visitors into sales.

David Kranker Creative

David Kranker Creative is a top SEO agency that excels in link building, content creation, and helping businesses of all sizes across many industries. The agency has a strong focus on SEO and employs 4 people. They have a minimum monthly retainer of $2000 USD with an average of $5000 USD. Notable accomplishments include working with a B2B manufacturer who saw an increase in organic traffic by 338% and inquiries by 460%.

Solve

Solve is an awardwinning SEO, digital marketing and web design agency based in the UK. With over 65 fivestar Google reviews, Solve helps businesses all over the world get seen online through dynamic SEO techniques and personalised, honest approach to web design and online business consultancy. To date, they have provided 300+ businesses with a solid online foundation which has seen many clients return time and again. Highly ecofocused and B Corp certified, Solve’s biggest strength is their onsite SEO expertise.

Flying V Group

Flying V Group is a top SEO agency that employs a comprehensive and holistic approach to digital marketing and advertising. This includes website design and development, search engine optimization (SEO), payperclick advertising (PPC), social media marketing, and content marketing. The firm has worked with many clients in the financial services and fintech space and has seen an increase in clickthroughrates, on average, of 42% and overall lead generation has increased by 67%.

Mr. Technique

This agency specializes in helping small businesses generate leads and sales through web design, SEO, and web hosting. They have a lot of experience with WordPress and local SEO, and their shared hosting plans come with a 75day money back guarantee. They’re also very good at taking existing content and making it more search engine and visitorfriendly.

Next Level Metro

This toptier SEO agency employs just one person, but has managed to achieve some impressive results for its clients. Its founder, Bryce Coffey, was invited to present at a roundtable event hosted by Tai Lopez and Dr. Alex Mehr, two wellknown entrepreneurs. The agency’s biggest strength is its focus on helping roofing companies get more clicks from Google.

iwebsitez.com

iwebsitez.com is a bespoke SEO company that focuses on providing quality services to help businesses improve their rankings on Google search listings. The company employs 4 people and has a minimum monthly retainer of $450 USD with an average of $800 USD. The company has notable accomplishments, such as helping a business turn over £50,000 GBP per month from £0 online. iwebsitez.com specializes in technical SEO, onpage SEO, and offpage SEO in order to provide the best possible results for its clients.

Marketinglad

Marketing Lad is a vibrant digital marketing firm with a focus on web creation, linkbuilding, and SEO. SEO services, backlink building, product reviews, niche editing, and domain authorityboosting tactics are among their key services. In order to assist clients in measuring their search performance, they also offer oneonone training, access to a Slack group, and a ranktracking.
Whether your goal is to improve search ranks, build link equity, or get individualized SEO training, MarketingLad presents itself as a specialist partner committed to longterm growth and authority. Explore their training and community options, use the contact forms and demo request on their website, or learn more.

Hiring an SEO Firm FAQs


Why Hire An SEO Company?

Reputable and experienced SEO firms will provide professional, tried, and tested strategies that will aid your business to rank organically over time. If you found an SEO company that promises you instant rank on page 1 in just a few hours, be wary. Generally, keyword rankings that are highly targeted and effective take time. SEO is often referred to for its slowburning nature due to this reason. ROI can be achieved over many months. Additionally, SEO firms also benefit from the most effective tools available (which cost money for nontechnical people), top resources, and uptodate knowledge of the everchanging nature of SEO. A reputable SEO agency understands Google’s more than 200 website ranking factors and can help you obtain the most effective results that match your objectives and budget.

What Services Do SEO Companies Offer?

Services that SEO companies offer:
 SEO consultation. SEO companies can help you develop an SEO strategy that will work best for your website. They will analyze your website and suggest how to improve your ranking.
 SEO optimization. SEO companies or agencies will help you optimize your website for search engines. They will make changes to your website’s code and content to make it more search engine friendly.
 SEO copywriting. SEO companies can help you write SEOfriendly content for your website. They will help you create titles, headlines, and descriptions that will attract attention from search engines.
 Link building. SEO companies can help you build links to your website from other websites. It will help improve your site’s ranking on search engines.
 Monthly reporting. SEO companies can provide monthly reports on your website’s ranking and progress. It will help you track your website’s progress and make necessary changes.
 Keyword research onpage optimization. SEO companies can help you research and select the best keywords for your website. They will also help you optimize your website’s pages for those keywords.
 Technical SEO audit. SEO companies can help you identify and fix your website’s technical errors that prevent it from ranking higher on search engines.
 Offpage optimization. SEO companies will help you improve your website’s ranking by optimizing it for social media, directories, and other websites.
 Local SEO. SEO companies will help you optimize your website for local search engines. They will help you submit your website to local directories and ensure it will include in local search results.

How Much Do SEO Agencies Typically Charge?

SEO agencies usually bill monthly fees for their services. This fee can vary depending on the agency and the services they offer. Some companies and agencies charge a flat rate, while others charge based on the number of keywords they optimize or the number of links they build. In the US, SEO companies with experience generally charge between $125 and $200plus per hour, while Eastern European SEO companies may cost as low as 40 to $100 an hour. SEO agencies in Saudi Arabia, in their turn, typically charge 1K+ euros per project. Based on the type and size of the project complexity, level of experience, and the location of the agency, monthly retainers could vary from $500 per month up to over 25,000 dollars per month.
It’s necessary to shop around and compare prices before you decide which SEO agency to hire. Make sure you understand the services included in the monthly fee and ask for a list of recent clients to see how well the agency has performed in the past.
When comparing prices, remember that not all SEO agencies are equal in terms of the quality of services. Some agencies have more experienced and better track records than others. It’s worth paying a little extra for an agency to help you achieve your desired results.

How To Choose The Best SEO Company?

Take note of the following points when searching for a trustworthy and knowledgeable SEO agency. What tools do they employ (Paid and free)? SEO is a process that requires the most effective tools and resources to discover relevant keywords, gather data, and track progress on a large. Before you sign a contract with an SEO firm, inquire what time it will take to achieve results, how often they’ll update you on their progress, and how their constantly changing data will impact their strategies throughout the project. What are their methods of measuring the success of their efforts? Are their reports updated in realtime? Be it a contract with an agency or for consulting, it is good to have your coaching contract template in place․
Additionally, ensure you agree with their fees and payment structures. Are you paying an hourly rate, flat fee, or per goal accomplished? What are the services included in the monthly price?
The company should have a team of experienced writers, web developers, and SEO analysts who will help you achieve your desired results. The team should be able to answer your questions and concerns promptly and professionally.
When interviewing potential agencies, ask about their experience with your industry and target market. Ask for examples of their work, and ask to speak to some of their clients.
Finally, make sure you are comfortable with the agency’s communication style. You should be able to communicate them quickly and get timely responses to your questions and concerns. contact

10 Questions To Inquire Top SEO Companies Before You Hire One

 What SEO services can you offer?
 How do you come up with the strategies for search engine Optimization strategies?
 What SEO techniques do you think will be most beneficial to us, and why?
 What tools, platforms, or resources does your organization make use of?
 Who will be involved in the project? What are their skills?
 Who is our contact person? Who will be our point of contact?
 What is the frequency of meetings and updates?
 How often do you look at data and analytics?
 How often will we receive reports?
 What is the time frame for us to see the results?
 Takeaways: What Is The Best Search Engine Optimization Agency?
 What is it that makes the SEO agency genuinely unique?
That’s entirely dependent on you and your goals for the business. Of course, some essential factors to remember when ensuring that the company you’re working with is of the highest quality. They are:
 SEO experts run it.
 It boasts a vast portfolio
 It relies on highquality tools and resources.
 It reports on results and provides results.
 All the best!
When choosing an SEO company, it’s important to ask many questions to ensure you get the best possible service. Make sure the company offers all the services you need, is affordable, and is reliable and trustworthy. Read and observe reviews from past clients to get a feel for how well they have performed. Talk to the representatives from the company and ask them lots of questions to get a feel and background for their level of expertise and professionalism.

SEO and Link Building Resources

 Case Studies

From Zero to Breakthrough: The Marketing Tactic That Made It Happen

 Case Studies

How Startups Are Winning with Real Tactics That Actually Convert

 Case Studies

How to Track Multiple Vehicles With Vehicle Tracking Software?

 Case Studies

How to Create a Content Marketing Strategy for eCommerce

 Case Studies

How to Choose the Best SEO Software for Your Business

 Guides

Best Rank Tracking Tools for Local Businesses: What Actually Matters?

 Case Studies

Best Digital Marketing Tips From Experts

 Guides

Why Every Business Needs a Website

 Guides

Using SEO For Lead Generation – Everything You Need To Know

 Listicles

The Best Books To Learn SEO Recommended by Pros


Curious?


Let's talk LINKIO


We love talking LINKIO. Let us know about your project and we'll send you a free proposal


Curious?


Let's talk LINKIO


We love talking LINKIO. Let us know about your project and we'll send you a free proposal