How to Create Link Building Outreach Subject Lines That Get Opened


How to Create Link Building Outreach Subject Lines That Get Opened

 1. Know Your Target Customer
 2. Create your link building outreach list
 3. Understand Your Target Customer’s Core Needs (and how you can solve them with link building strategies)
 4. Improve Your Email Deliverability Rate
 5. Conduct Research
 6. Create your subject lines
 7. Test your subject lines
 8. Create, finalize, and automate your campaigns
 9. Create followup sequences
 Wrap up
As a link builder, SEO specialist, or sales rep, email marketing is a pivotal tool in your outreach arsenal.
But encouraging your audience to open your emails doesn’t always come easy … does it?
With other brands competing for your target customer’s attention, you may be constantly wondering how to position yourself to stand out among the rest.
And while there’s no “foolproof” strategy for winning over a crowded inbox, the good news is you can do your best to get your foot in the door quicker.
By taking the time to thoroughly plan your email subject lines, you can stimulate curiosity, demonstrate benefits, and (if all goes well) nudge your recipients toward conversion.
Ready to learn more about how to create link building outreach subject lines that get opened?
Let’s begin!

1. Know Your Target Customer

What kinds of brands will you be reaching out to and why? What industry are they in? What’s their company size? How can link building and recruitment marketing help them reach their brand visibility and authority goals?
In this step, get laserclear on your target customer.
Then, decide who you’ll be reaching out to, specifically.
Which brings us to …

2. Create your link building outreach list

Take a look at your Linkedin prospecting list, email list, outreach list, and CRM and decide which brands you’ll be reaching out to. Start by choosing the hottest leads and then the warm ones. Fill out the rest of your list with relevant cold prospects.
Pro tip: When targeting cold leads, try asking for a small request first. As you build trust, you can start increasing your offer requests little by little.
For instance, if you wanted to offer link building services to a SaaS company, like PetScreening, you might ask if the team can meet with you for a brief 15 minute call before offering your services.
Or, you could start the trustbuilding process early by sharing awesome results you helped other SaaS companies in the pet sector get. More on this in a bit.

3. Understand Your Target Customer’s Core Needs (and how you can solve them with link building strategies)

Putting yourself in your target customer’s shoes is essential to understanding what their core needs are and how you can fulfill them with your link building solutions.
Once you’re clear on how to meet their needs, you can create inspired and personalized subject lines with them in mind.
For instance, if you’d like to reach out to a credit card rewards company, you might discover that the company is struggling to convince high authority websites to feature its links. In this case, you can position yourself as an outreach expert that already has websites ready to feature the company’s links.
Or if you want to reach out to a B2B cyber security brand specializing in advanced features like  DDoS protection, you might discover the brand is having trouble finding guest post writers that are wellversed in cyber security.
In this case, you can address its pain point headon by sharing who on your team has ample experience writing guest posts for cybersecurity blogs.

4. Improve Your Email Deliverability Rate

Improve the chances of your email making it to your recipient’s inbox by following these email deliverability rate tips:
 Stay away from terms that could be flagged as spam (check with your email provider for a full list of spammy words)
 Use a professional email address that includes your first and last name
 Don’t send from an email address that has a brand name, symbols, numbers, or inappropriate terms
 Add a headshot to your email profile — it’ll pop up next to your email address in the recipients inbox, demonstrating that you’re a real professional
 Use an email verification tool to scan and confirm that all of your recipient addresses are correct and active

5. Conduct Research

To see which other subject lines have seen success, carve out time in your schedule to study articles, guides, and marketing books.
You might also consider attending training and seminars or taking a link building outreach course. You may need a SharePoint calendar to schedule these trainings if you’re going to take them as a group.

6. Create your subject lines

And finally, brainstorm and create your subject lines! When possible, personalize subject lines by addressing recipients by name — or, at the very least, do so when you greet them in the email body.
When creating your subject lines, keep your target customer, their core needs, and your research topofmind.
Here are some subject lines you can refer to for inspiration.

Short and sweet curiosity builders

Grab your audience’s attention with these short and sweet curiositybuilding subject lines:
 Got a sec?
 Got links?
 Know HA sites?
 Re:
 (No subject)
 This is HUGE!
 Heads up
 Quick chat?
 Checkin
 You’ll never believe…
 Hi!
 Hello
 Collab opportunity 🙂

Sense of urgency/FOMO subject lines

Create a fear of missing out and a sense of urgency with the following subject lines:
 Why you can’t afford to ignore link building
 Link building webinar replay expires at midnight
 Today only: Free link building ebook available for download
 Spots are almost full: Have you booked your backlinks yet?
 New backlink clients get 20% off today only
 Last chance! Link building prices go up at midnight!
 We have a 24 hour sale with your name on it
 3dayonly sale: 100 backlinks for the price of 50
 Why you can’t afford to skip guest posting
 Why HA sites matter (and what to do about it)

Pain point solution subject lines

Solve your target customer’s pain points with subject lines like the ones below:
 Low domain authority score? We can help
 Boost your audience reach in three simple steps
 Tired of illperforming blog posts?
 Your guest posting expert has arrived
 Save time on link building campaigns
 Low monthly readership? Not with this strategy
 Need to connect with highauthority sites? We can help
 Trouble finding quality guest post writers? Not anymore
 No HA sites ready to link to? We can change that

Discount based subject lines

Who doesn’t love a good discount? Sweeten the pot by offering savings off your link building services with the following subject lines:
 Buy two months of link building services, get one month free
 10 links for the price of three?!
 DR 75 backlinks for the price of DR 60
 50% off on all link building packages
 Invest in link building, get a free support specialist!
 Today only: 20% off all link building products and services
 Get a free link building consultation when you sign up for our newsletter
 Refer a friend and get 30% off any package
 BOGO deals on all services! Today only!

Results based subject lines

Use data and stats to show your target customer that your services deliver serious results:
 Find out how CrossTrain boosted its audience reach by 125%
 We helped Sour Apple’s blog grow to 300,000+ monthly readers
 Birdie Mae success: 10k to 80k organic monthly visitors
 Techmall saw improved rankings in just three months
 From off the map to 500,000 monthly readers
 79 links in less than a month?!
 How 24Bank went from off the map to 500,000 subscribers
 12 companies that boosted traffic in less than 60 days

Questionbased subject lines

Stir curiosity and provide valuable information with these questionbased subject lines:
 What’s white hat link building?
 What makes a quality backlink?
 How to acquire quality backlinks?
 Why is link building important for SEO?
 Ready to boost your domain authority?
 How do guest posts earn backlinks?
 Why are quality guest posts important?
 What makes an expert link builder?
 Is it important to hire a link builder?
 Is it important to hire a guest posting author?
 Should I hire a digital PR agency?
 What is anchor text?
 Why does anchor text matter?
 10 anchor text do’s and don’ts
 Is link building relevant to my industry?
 When should I see results from my outreach efforts?

Benefitsbased subject lines

Show your audience what’s in it for them with subject lines like the ones below:
 We only target high domain authority sites that produce results.
 Focus on your business, we’ll take care of the links
 Never worry about increasing organic traffic again
 Not a link building specialist? We’ve got your back
 Land toptier backlinks in days
 Never guess your link building strategy again
 Put an end to lowquality link building
 Earn normally unreachable backlinks in days
 No link building experience? No problem!
 Five ways to gain more backlinks
 Unclear what link building is? Here’s the story in a nutshel
Note that the better your email’s subject line fits in the scope of interest of your buyer persona, the higher open rate you’ll get at the end of your campaign.

7. Test your subject lines

After you’ve brainstormed and created plenty of link building outreach subject line options, run A/B testing campaigns to discover which lines perform best.
You can also send out surveys and questionnaires, ask a focus group, or  hire  an experienced  virtual assistant to handle testing for you.

8. Create, finalize, and automate your campaigns

Once you have a feel for the subject lines that perform best, start creating, finalizing, and automating your outreach campaigns.
Segment your campaigns by prospect type and schedule them to send automatically.
There’s a caveat here, though.
While automating your campaigns is essential to streamlining your outreach processes, it’s vital to stay armed and ready to respond to and nurture prospects when you get a reply from them.
In other words, make sure you know how to continue the conversation effectively so you can nudge your prospect closer to the finish line — otherwise known as conversion.
And that brings us to …

9. Create followup sequences

Keep the outreach momentum going by staying in touch with prospects, even if they haven’t said yes to you or responded to any of your emails.
Speed up the process by using tools like followup email templates and an AIpowered sales outreach platform.
When creating your followup sequences, segment your customers by pain point, need, or other pertinent information, such as:
 Time of last followup
 Core solution you’re presenting
 Industry
 Business size
 Sales revenue
 Competitor score
Continue building a relationship with the prospect over time until they become your customer. If you discover the target customer isn’t a good fit for your brand, consider removing them from your outreach list or spacing out your followup emails in case their needs change.

Wrap up

Email marketing is a pivotal tool in your outreach arsenal.
But that doesn’t mean that convincing your audience to open your emails comes easily.
With other brands on the hunt for your target customer’s attention, knowing how to stand out among the rest is crucial. While foolproof strategies don’t exist, there are still best practices you can use to get one step closer to converting your prospects.
And that’s why taking the time to thoroughly plan your link building outreach subject lines is so important.
If you’re ready to get your foot in the door quicker, we hope today’s article has inspired you to create email subject lines that convert.
That’s it for today, friends.
To your campaign’s success
Author Bio:
Joanne Camarce grows and strategizes B2B marketing and PR efforts. She loves slaying outreach campaigns and connecting with brands like G2, Wordstream, Process Street, and others. When she’s not wearing her marketing hat, you’ll find Joanne admiring Japanese music and art or just being a dog mom.

SEO and Link Building Resources

 Case Studies

From Zero to Breakthrough: The Marketing Tactic That Made It Happen

 Case Studies

How Startups Are Winning with Real Tactics That Actually Convert

 Case Studies

How to Track Multiple Vehicles With Vehicle Tracking Software?

 Case Studies

How to Create a Content Marketing Strategy for eCommerce

 Case Studies

How to Choose the Best SEO Software for Your Business

 Guides

Best Rank Tracking Tools for Local Businesses: What Actually Matters?

 Case Studies

Best Digital Marketing Tips From Experts

 Guides

Why Every Business Needs a Website

 Guides

Using SEO For Lead Generation – Everything You Need To Know

 Listicles

The Best Books To Learn SEO Recommended by Pros


Curious?


Let's talk LINKIO


We love talking LINKIO. Let us know about your project and we'll send you a free proposal


Curious?


Let's talk LINKIO


We love talking LINKIO. Let us know about your project and we'll send you a free proposal